# W11D1

* One-on-one meetings with career coaches will take place this week.  You will received emails with more info.
* There are two lectures today (see below)

## Mock Interviewing
* Begin [mock interviewing][pair-boarding-index].  
  * Mock interviews are every day at 10am until the end of a/A.
  * Set up any whiteboards and find markers around the office.
  * Pair assignments are sent by email.  If your pair is not present, tell the TA that called roll.

## Make your list of companies
* Add 15 companies to [Jobberwocky][jobberwocky] per day until you find a job
  * Edit the status to "Will Apply" until you send your application
  * Hover over the company name to add application details.
  * While you're researching the company, craft your [company blurb][cover-letter] .
* To find companies, see the Companies tab in Jobberwocky, the Tech Companies spreadsheets ([NY][ny-tech-companies] & [SF][bay-tech-companies]) or any job board.  Some suggested job boards are [here][job-boards].
  * Rank companies 1 to 3
    * 3 means "Not dying to work there" or "Don't know enough about them". Should be 45-55% of them.
    * 2 means "Looks like a cool place". Should be 35-40% of them.
    * 1 means "Want to work there". Should be 10-15%

## Algorithms & Technical Interviews
* See App Academy's list of tech [interview questions][interview-questions].  These have been collected from real interviews.  
* Attend the Technical Interviews lecture after lunch. 
* See the algorithms reading [here][algorithms-curriculum].  
* See shared calendar for algorithms lecture times.



[pair-boarding-index]: ../interview-prep/pairboarding/index.md#index
[jobberwocky]: http://progress.appacademy.io/jobberwocky
[cover-letter]: ../self-presentation/cover_letter.md
[job-boards]: ../mass-applying/job-boards.md
[interview-questions]: https://docs.google.com/a/appacademy.io/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AnnoREts_wUydHN3UGZfbDZIME1VTEY3Y3pUNWpZZGc#gid=0
[algorithms-curriculum]: https://github.com/appacademy/algorithms-curriculum
[ny-tech-companies]: https://docs.google.com/a/appacademy.io/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AnnoREts_wUydEk1Z25ER3V4aTdsWjlMRTVmWC1BU2c#gid=0
[bay-tech-companies]: https://docs.google.com/a/appacademy.io/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AnnoREts_wUydFpJSVZLM25wdmc0Vk56UzEwUzJiY3c#gid=0
