### Tech is for All of Us: Strategies for Good Allyship 

Whether you're a seasoned tech veteran or brand new to the field, there are undoubtedly ways in which you can learn and grow around issues of diversity.  Being an ally to women in tech, people of color, gay/queer/lesbian folks, people with disabilities, transgender people, and other marginalized folks is a learning process and a daily practice.  It takes time, work, and deep thought to become the ally you want to be and that marginalized people need you to be.  Herein are some general strategies and tips to start you off.  

**Listen and believe.**  The sting of discriminatory words and actions, large and small, is elusive: we know it when we feel it, but it's very hard to describe to those that don't share our experience.  When someone discloses an incident of discrimination to you, listen with open ears and mind.  Believe them without judgment.  Ask them what you can do to help mend the situation -- don't assume that you will know the best resolution. 

**Respect boundaries and ask permission.**  Whether it's race, gender, or something else, the issue that you're learning to be an ally around is very personal.  Questions are normal and understandable, but marginalized folks encounter these questions all the time.  It can be tiresome and wearing.  If you have a question, great!  But try to mitigate your curiousity by finding resources such as books, blogs, podcasts, etc.  And when you do have a question you'd like to ask your marginalized friend or colleague, get their permission to ask first, and be cognizant of their reactions and the time and space you're taking up when having the conversation.  

**Don't get defensive.**  We all make mistakes -- every one of us is guilty of insensitivity and even discrimination, intentional or unintentional.  The important part comes when you're called out on your words or actions.  It's natural to get defensive -- resist the urge!  Instead, admit your actions, apologize, and move forward by learning to do better next time.  Take some time to read or listen to some resources on the issue in question, and think deeply about why you said or did what you did.  

**Speak up.**  If you're, say, white, it's easy to hide from racism.  If you're straight, the sting of homophobia probably doesn't hit you very hard.  But speaking up when you witness something racist/sexist/homophobic/ablelist/transphobic occur is very powerful.  Ironically, people in the majority are often more willing to others in their group than they are to marginalized folks.  Put yourself out there and risk a little bit for your adopted cause.  

**Don't tokenize.**  People are complicated and multifaceted.  Your transgender friend is more than their gender transition; your black colleague is more than their race.  Engage them accordingly; don't reduce them to one single aspect of their personhood.  And remember, we don't speak for the entirety of our communities -- your cousin with a disability can't speak for all people with disabilities any more than you can speak for the whole community of software developers.  

**Keep learning.**  Becoming an ally to any community is a process that takes time and investment.  You're probably a better ally than you were a few minutes ago, but the process doesn't stop here.  Listen, read, think, and talk about these issues.  Grow your empathy by trying to put yourself in the shoes of people who are different than you.  And then, iterate for all time :)  
