# Employee Equity

## Stock Options

This is a very abbreviated discussion of what stock options are.

Many companies offer stock options to their employees as part of their
compensation. An **option** is a right to purchase a share of the
company at a pre-arranged price (the **strike price**). The company
will set the strike price when it grants you the options; they are
obligated to set this based on the current **fair market value** (FMV)
of the company.

Because the strike price is set to the current FMV, options only
become valuable if the company appreciates in value. If the company is
worth $1/share when you join, you will be granted options with a
strike price of $1/share (the FMV). If the company does not appreciate
in value, you can **exercise** your options to pay the company
$1/share to buy a share worth $1. However, if the company has not
appreciated in value, this doesn't make you any money.

The hope (read: dream) is that the company will appreciate in value so
that it becomes worth, say, $2/share. Then, since you have been
granted the right to purchase a share at $1/share, you can exercise
the option to purchase shares worth $2 at a price of $1/share. This is
the good scenario.

The good news is that unexercised options don't lose you money. If the
company declines in value to $0.50/share, then it would be irrational
to exercise your options, because you would be paying $1 to buy
something worth $0.50. In this case, your options are worthless, but
at least you didn't put any of your own money in the game.

## Options vs Shares

Companies may offer you shares (they often call these **restricted
stock units**, or **RSU**) instead of stock options. The difference is
that options are a right to buy a share, whereas shares are just
shares.

If you ignore tax implications, receiving shares is better than
receiving options. This is because if you are granted shares, you
don't have to pay to buy the shares, which is what you have to do with
options.

Let's take an example. Say the FMV of a company is $1/share. If the
company grants you 1k shares, they have given you assets that have an
FMV of $1k. On the other hand, if the company grants you the right to
buy 1k shares at the FMV, then these are currently worth nothing: you
have the right to buy 1k shares at $1k, but they're only worth $1k.

If the company appreciates in value to $2/share, an option grant of 1k
shares becomes worth $1k, since you can buy 1k shares worth $2k at
$1k. On the other hand, if you received a grant of 1k shares, these
are now worth the full $2k. So again, shares are better than options.

Lastly, if the company declines in value to $0.50/share, your options
are worthless. Exercising them would mean you spend $1k for 1k shares
worth $500, so you would never do that. On the other hand, if you were
granted shares, your shares that you paid nothing for are still worth
$500.

## Why Options?

There are a few reasons. First, you are not required to pay any tax on
the option when it vests. That's because you were granted the right to
purchase something worth $1 at the price of $1. This is currently
worthless, so the IRS does not treat this as income.

If, on the other hand, if you vest 1k shares worth $1k, you would have
to declare that as income and pay income tax. This can be especially
painful if the company is not public and you cannot sell the
shares. Imagine a scenario where you vest $1MM worth of shares, but
you have no cash. Then the IRS will send you a bill for X% of $1MM,
but you have no cash to pay them. You can't sell the stock, because
the company is not public yet. So you can't yet turn your stock into
cash, but the IRS wants to tax you anyway. Of course, the IRS only
accepts USD to pay taxes...

This happens to paper millionaires sometimes; they might mortgage
their house to pay the IRS.

Even worse, the stock can decline in value. You have to pay income tax
on stock that you can't sell, and may never be able to sell (for
instance, a high flying company later craters and goes bankrupt). In
the options scenario, you would just let the options expire and owe no
tax.

The other reasons benefit the company. By granting options, they are
ensuring you only make money if the company grows. In the case where
the company does not grow, they gave you something that wasn't worth
anything anyway.

## Vesting

Your stock options will **vest** over time. This means that you can't
immediately exercise your options and quit. The standard setup is that
25% of your options will vest after 1yr at the company; you lose all
your options if you leave before then. After that date, 1/48th of your
total options will vest each month. After a total of four years, your
options will be fully vested.

The company does this because it wants to use the options as an
incentive for you to remain over several years. This is a form of
golden handcuffs.

As your options vest, you may exercise them. You write a check to the
company and they give you a letter saying you own stock. Actually, you
can even exercise before vesting, but we won't talk about that right
now. Once you own the stock, it's yours to keep even if you
quit. However, you will lose all your unvested options the day you
quit the company. Also, any vested but **unexercised** options are
lost ~30days after you leave the company.

## Details, Valuing Options

To evaluate an options offer, you need to know a few things:

* How many options are you being granted?
* What is the vesting schedule? (Probably 4yrs)
* How many outstanding shares are there? That is, what percentage of
  the company are you be granted the option to purchase?
* What is the FMV of a share? That is, what is the strike price?
  Alternatively, the most recent valuation of the company, divided by
  the number of outstanding shares should give you the FMV of a share.

It is typical that a company will tell you that they are granting you
options on X thousand shares, or to buy $X thousand dollars worth of
shares. This information, alone, is useless.

If you want to value an option grant, you need to:

1. Make up a future valuation of the company. For instance, maybe you
   think that the company will eventually be worth $100MM. **Note**:
   no one, not even the CEO, has any idea what this will be.
2. Subtract out the current FMV of the company. The difference is how
   much you think the company will appreciate. Say, for instance, that
   the company is currently valued at $10MM. You think the company
   will grow by $90MM.
3. Multiply by your option grant, as a percentage of shares
   outstanding. This is how much of the appreciation in the company
   you have the right to buy. If your option grant is 0.1% of the
   shares outstanding, you are being granted the right to $90k of the
   appreciation.
4. Divide by the vesting period. This is how much of the appreciation
   you'll vest each year. With a four year vesting period, this is
   $22.5k/yr.
5. Multiply by zero, because
    0. the company will never meet your
       wild-ass guess of its future value (99% of companies eventually
       fail and are worth nothing),
    0. you'll be diluted (your % ownership will drop) as the company
       takes on new investors/employees and issues more outstanding
       shares,
    0. the company takes forever to go public anyway. No matter
       how great the company does, you can't turn shares into money
       until IPO or purchase (a **liquidity event**). It's hard to
       sell your shares on something like Second Market because you'll
       have a very small block of shares, plus only the most
       fabulously successful will trade there.
    0. you'll quit early to take a better, higher-paying job, leaving
       unvested shares on the table,
    0. taxes
    0. the company does something evil like fire you when your
       options become too valuable (cf., Skype, Zynga).

Take myself as an example. I vested 2k shares of Quantcast options
while I worked there (four years ago). I purchased them at a strike
price of $0.25. The latest round valued them at $1.09/share. That
means I made a grand total of ~$1,800 **over two years** from
options. Except that of course the company isn't public so actually my
shares are worth zero in real dollars that I can use to buy food and
toys for my cats. Quantcast is ~8yrs old and does $100MM of revenue,
so this is actually the **good** case.

That's why it's important to multiply by zero.
