## Introduction

Walk me through your career up to this point.

**NB**: this is your cue to do your personal pitch.

## Culture Fit

What kind of work culture are you looking for?

This question is hard to answer with the usual PAR format, but here are some things that should be included in the answer:

- How collaborative do you like your work to be?  (Employers usually like potential employees to be capable of being both self-directed and collaborative, so it's good to provide a balanced answer)
- How intensely do you work?  Are you looking for a startup where everyone is "all in" and works crazy hours, or are you looking for something a little more laidback?  Again, most employers are looking for something in the middle, but some companies are upfront about being very intense.
- What do you value in a potential company -- money, bettering the world, interesting code base, etc.?  Do your colleagues need to share these values? 

## `silly_years`

Write a function that takes a year (four digit integer) and returns an
array with the 10 closest subsequent years that meet the following
condition: the first two digits summed with the last two digits are
equal to the middle two digits. E.g.,

    1978 => 19 + 78 = 97
    2307 => 23 + 07 = 30

```ruby
def silly_years(year)
  years = []

  until years.length == 10
    year += 1
    digits = year.to_s

    first_two, middle_two, last_two = [
      digits[0..1], digits[1..2], digits[2..-1]
    ].map { |pair| pair.to_i }

    years << year if (first_two + last_two) == middle_two
    
  end

  years
end
```

There's also a more efficient deductive solution, courtesy of [@joshuameisel][josh-meisel-handle].

We're only looking at 4-digit years, all in the form "abcd" (in 1987, a = 1, b = 9, c = 8, d = 7).    
*"The first two digits plus the last two equal the middle two"* means *"ab + cd = bc"*.    
But ab is really 10 * a + b (as in 87 is 8 * 10 + 7). So we reformulate *"ab + cd = bc"*    
as (10 * a + b) + (10 * c + d) = (10 * b + c).    
Subtracting by the right side we get: (10 * a + b) + (10 * c + d) - (10 * b + c) = 0.    
Combine like terms:    
10 * a - 9 * b + 9 * c + d = 0.    
We can manipulate the left side further. It's equal to:    
a + 9a - 9b + 9c + d = a + 9a + 9(-b) + 9c + d = a + 9(a - b + c) + d = 0    
So:    
a + d = -9(a - b + c)    

We've proven that a + d is a multiple of 9. We also know that a and d, being digits, are between 0 and nine inclusive.
So a + d is in between 0 + 0 = 0 and 9 + 9 = 18. It has to be 0, 9, or 18. It can't be 0 (there's no year 0870). a + d also can't be 18, because that would mean a and d are both 9. In the year 9bc9, 9b + c9 is at least 99, meaning b and c would also be at least 9. We know 9999 does not match the pattern we're looking for.

We're now proven that
* a + d = 9
* a - b + c = -1

Given the above, we can figure out what d and c must be once we know a and b. This means there is at most one silly year per century. On our input year, we simply iterate up subsequent centuries to see if any of them have a silly year. A century tells us a and b, from which we derive c and d. If c and d are both between 0 and 9, abcd is a silly year.

[josh-meisel-handle]: https://github.com/joshuameisel

## `pair_sum`

Given an array of integers, return all pairs that sum up to a
specified value `k`. List the pairs in `[min, max]` order.

```ruby
require 'set'

def pair_sum(arr, k)
  seen = Set.new
  pairs = Set.new

  arr.each do |num|
    target = k - num

    if seen.include?(target)
      # add in [min, max] order
      pairs.add(
        [[num, target].min, [num, target].max]
      )
    end

    # add `num` after checking; what if we put this before and there's
    # a single `0` is in the `arr`?
    seen.add(num)
  end

  pairs
end

pair_sum([1, 2, -1], 0)          # => #<Set: {[-1, 1]}>
pair_sum([1, 2, -1, -1], 0)      # => #<Set: {[-1, 1]}>
pair_sum([1, 2, -1, -1, -2], 0)  # => #<Set: {[-1, 1], [-2, 2]}>
pair_sum([1, 2, -1, -1, -2], 1)  # => #<Set: {[-1, 2]}>
pair_sum([1, 2, -1, -1, -2], -1) # => #<Set: {[-2, 1]}>
```

Time complexity: `O(n)`. This uses the fact that hash set `add` and
`include?` are both `O(1)`.
