## Introduction

What made you want to become a software developer?

(Assume you are applying to Coursera)

## Field of Interest

I see that you have a background in Field X.  How does that influence your work as a software developer?

**NB**: Field X could be your college major, your research focus in grad school, or the professional field you used to work in.

## `cyclic?`

Consider a linked list. Each link in the list holds a `next` reference
to the next item in the list, except for the final link, which points
to `nil`.

It is possible to have a "list" without any end, which loops back on
itself. Possibilities:

```
A -> B -> C -> A -> ...
A -> B -> C -> B -> ...
```

Write a method `cyclic?(first_link)`, which will return true if a list
is cyclic. Your first version may use `O(n)` memory. Next, write a
version which uses `O(1)` memory; you'll probably need a different
approach.

```
def cyclic1?(first_link)
  set = Set.new

  current_link = first_link
  until current_link.nil?
    # if list is cyclic, must loop back on itself eventually
    return true if set.include?(current_link)
    set << current_link

    current_link = current_link.next
  end

  false
end

def cyclic2?(first_link)
  slow_runner = first_link
  fast_runner = first_link

  while true
    2.times do
      fast_runner = fast_runner.next
      return false if fast_runner.nil?
      return true if fast_runner == slow_runner
    end

    slow_runner = slow_runner.next
  end
end
```

**Given two singly-linked lists of (possibly) differing lengths that
  converge at some point, find the node at which they converge.**

Imagine two runners, running at the same speed across the linked
lists. If one list is longer than the other, the shorter list's runner
will reach the end first. The difference between the two runners'
times is the difference in length between the two lists. Knowing this,
we can give one runner a head-start of a distance equivalent to the
difference in length between the two lists. Then traversing both lists
at equal speed will result in the two runners colliding at the
intersection point.
