# Getting Jobbed

You must find a job within the next 9 weeks. It will not be easy. Take
solace only in your skills, your hustle, and in your colleagues and
predecessors. 

## Real Talk

You have learned well. If you've made it through the formal training
part of App Academy, you have real-world, valuable skills that companies
in the SF Bay Area want and need. Fundamentally, you have everything you
need to find a good, well-paying job in software development.

You have doubts. You're not sure if you're good enough. You're scared of
getting rejected. All normal. What you'll need over the next 3-9 weeks
is not so much confidence as it is hustle. If you put in the work -
study, practice, apply - you'll do well. 

Here is the story successful job hunters tell: they applied to a lot of
places, got rejected from most, got a lowball offer, applied some more,
did well on some interviews, were crap on others, studied, applied some
more, got an offer, got rejected some more, got another offer,
negotiated, accepted an offer from a sweet tech company for $80-100k+
and started their jobs happily collecting their paychecks.  The really
good ones then pay it forward to their fellow App Academy alums and get
them interviews and jobs at all the places they got offers or interviews
from.

A job hunt can be draining. But you shall find a job before you are fully
drained. You will feel judged, you will feel inadequate. Oh well. There
is a sweet job and a sweet new life waiting for you at the end of this
road. If you work hard, it's yours.

## Application Process Overview

The application process is pretty much the same everywhere:

  1. Apply by email
      
      This usually entails sending a cover letter (i.e. the email
      itself) and resume to the company's HR/recruting person.

  2. Phone screen with recruiter

      The recruiter/HR person will call you and ask about your
      background and get a feel for you as a person and a technical
      candidate. This will not entail any actual technical questions
      except for "buzz word" questions (i.e. where the recruiter just
      wants to see if you know the lingo - you do).

  3. Technical phone screen

      You will have a phone interview with an engineer or two. They will
      ask you technical questions (we will cover the general areas they
      may ask about) which you will usually be solving in code in an
      online text editor (like Stypi). This will usually last 1 hour.

  4. Technical in-person interviews

      This is the final stage in the interview process. You will usually
      go on-site for this interview and meet with anywhere from 3-10
      people over the course of 3-6+ hours. You will have multiple
      technical interviews where you will solve technical problems on a
      whiteboard and/or your computer. This is the most challenging
      phase and the one with the highest chance of yielding you an
      offer. Different companies handle this phase differently and so
      they may break it up over two days, have different numbers of
      interviewers, etc. but it will usually be a half-day/full-day
      process with multiple interviews (technical and cultural).

  5. Final Response
      
      A company will usually get back to you within a couple weeks from
      your on-site interviews with their final response. If they are
      giving you an offer, they will usually tell you over the phone and
      then send the related paperwork. DO NOT accept the first offer you
      get. Always thank the company for the offer and let them know
      you're interviewing other places; ask when they'd like a response
      back from you. If they do not give you an offer, thank them for
      considering you as a candidate, ask them for some feedback to help
      you improve in other interviews, and be on your merry way.

  6. Negotiation and Decision

      The position you want to be in: two offers from two companies you
      like. You then play one against the other to improve your pay by
      $5-10k+, and then accept the offer you consider best (i.e. best
      combination of your interest in that company, how much you'll be
      learning, pay, etc.). Sign on the dotted line and let any other
      companies from whom you had an offer (or were in the middle of the
      interview process) know that you've accepted an offer elsewhere.
      Thank them for the offer (or for considering you as a candidate)
      and be on your merry way. Let them know about other App Academy
      students who may be good fits for the role. Congratulations,
      you're done. You are now officially a successful App Academy alum.

## Numbers, Numbers, Numbers

Note that each step has a big success dropoff rate. So, 100 applications
results in 20 phone screens which results in 5 technical screens which
results in 1 offer. Maybe.

Your job hunt is a numbers game. You will be sending out many, many,
many applications, and you will interview at many, many, many places. A
few will work out. Most will not. That is absolutely fine and to be
expected. 

Our most successful students put in the most work in this final leg of
the process. They applied to the most number of places, interviewed the
most, and got the most offers. And these students were usually also the
ones who started the process the earliest and moved the fastest. You
will all learn from their success.

## What Matters at Each Step

We'll cover just the steps up to getting the offer:

  1. Application
  2. HR Phone Screen
  3. Technical Phone Screen
  4. On-Site Interviews

### 1. Application

**Most important thing: personal project(s)**

*Necessary:*

  * Short (< 10 sentences), congenial cover letter (i.e. email) presenting
    yourself, your intention, and your interest in the company
  * Short (not longer than 1 page), clear resume with skills highlighted
  * Easy links to personal portfolio/project(s) on resume and in cover
    letter.

What you'll be doing:

  * Drafting a generic cover letter that will be altered slightly for
    each company. You will trade this with others for review & edit.
  * Drafting a resume and trading for review & edit.
  * Cleaning up your GitHub account
  * Polishing your projects (good READMEs, deployed, guest accounts for
    ones that require login, screenshots if necessary, improve styling &
    presentation, fix functionality, etc.)
  * Finding places to apply (company lists, meeting people, online job
    boards, events, etc.)

### 2. HR Phone Screen

**Most important thing: Being able to answer questions on your resume
and your projects.**

One of the things this will entail is how you present your experience at
App Academy and your current skill level. Know that you are a competent
Ruby/Rails and JavaScript/Backbone developer. You do not need to (nor
should you) pitch yourself as an eager beginner who wants to find a
place you can be mentored and taught. You will learn a ton wherever you
work, and hopefully you will have many excellent mentors, but you're
also immediately useful. You're a developer. Not a junior developer, not
an entry-level developer, not an aspiring developer. You are a
developer.

What you'll be doing:

  * Practice resume questions with others

### 3. Technical Phone Screen + On-Site Interviews

**Most important thing: performance on technical interview questions**

These two stages are grouped together because the criteria upon which
you will be judged is the same: your performance on the technical
interview questions. 

What you'll be doing:

  * Practice, practice, practice (alone and with others)
  * Study
  * Practice more

## The Plan

Everyday for the next 3-9 weeks (until you're jobbed), you will be
working along two tracks:

  1. Getting interviews (applications & phone screens)
  2. Nailing interviews (technical interviews)

There is a daily schedule provided for you. 

## Documents

There will be two documents that you will keep updated throughout your
job hunt process.

  1. Application spreadsheet: you will each have your own spreadsheet of
     all the companies you're applying to along with the status of your
     application process.
  2. Interview problem spreadsheet: there will be one master list of
     interview problems. Every time you have an interview (HR call,
     technical phone screen, in-person), you will record as many
     questions as you can remember in that list. 


