# Next Steps!

## Goal

It is not essential to immediately learn more about algorithms,
languages, and operating systems. Knowing more about these topics
probably won't be more valuable, dollars-and-cents wise, than learning
more about web development specifically.

However, I think that the better a foundation you have in the
fundamentals of CS can open new doors. But most of all, if you find it
an intrinsically interesting area to study, go for it!

## Algorithms

**Coursera Stanford Class**

For an online course teaching algorithms, I think this is a good
series:

    https://www.coursera.org/course/algo

It covers a lot of what we've already talked about, but it has
assignments that are automatically graded. I think it's a good choice
if you want more structure/homework like a traditional course.

It has a second part, which looks like super overkill. I don't know
half the algorithms in part II. I don't think your job should be to
learn every single last datastructure or graph theory algorithm. That
wouldn't interest me personally.

**Textbook**

In terms of a textbook, a lot of people buy the CLRS algorithms book:

    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CLRS

I didn't use CLRS when I was a student, and I think that it's better
as a reference book. I'm not a fan of super long books with a low
density of high-importance information. Therefore, I prefer:

    http://www.amazon.com/Algorithm-Design-Jon-Kleinberg/dp/0321295358

This was the algorithms book I used in college. Therefore, I'm not an
unbiased observer, but I think I learned algorithms okay :-)

## Programming Languages

**C**

I think everyone should eventually learn C. The standard and best
reference is:

    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_C_Programming_Language

This book is also referred to as K&R, after Brian Kernighan and Ken
Ritchie, who were key players in the development of Unix and the C
programming language. This was the book that opened my eyes a lot to
how software works at a low level: memory management, the call stack,
pointers, objects. One of the nicest things is that the book is quite
short, and doesn't waste a lot of your time.

**SICP**

After learning C, I think it makes sense to start thinking critically
about programming languages. The Structure and Interpretation of
Computer Programs, by Abelman and Sussman is a classic:

    http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/

## Operating Systems

Everything we've talked about is about applications. We got closer to
the memory in C, but even C presents abstractions like `malloc` and
`free`. Even function calling is an abstraction. Remember: the computer
is just a big electrical circuit, basically.

The book I used in college was:

    http://www.amazon.com/Computer-Systems-Programmers-Perspective-Edition/dp/0136108040

This is where I learned about virtual memory and system interrupts.
Reading it will help you realize that the OS is a meta-program that
provides the environment in which your code can run.

Tanenbaum's book on operating systems might also be a good choice, but
I don't have personal experience with it:

    http://www.amazon.com/Modern-Operating-Systems-4th-Edition/dp/013359162X/

Tanenbaum is popularly best known for his debate with Linus Torvalds,
but is a major figure in operating systems research.

## Other Subjects

* Networking
* Concurrency
