# W10D3
* Continue pairboarding at 11am
* Begin [job app materials reviews][job-app-materials-reviews]
  * Do this every weekday until W11D2. Ask your reviewees for the links before they start pairboarding.
  * Finish all reviews by 3pm, so you should start right after lunch.
* Send your reviewers the links to your Job App Materials before you start pairboarding at 11am.
* Build your list of companies you'll apply to
  * Add 15 companies to [Jobberwocky][jobberwocky] per day until you find a job.
  * Edit the status to "Will Apply" until you send your application,
    * Hover over the company name to add application details.
    * While you're researching the company, craft your company blurb.  For more about blurbs, see the [cover letter][cover-letter] page.
  * Rank companies 1 to 3
    * 3 means "Not dying to work there" or "Don't know enough about them". Should be 45-55% of them.
    * 2 means "Looks like a cool place". Should be 35-40% of them.
    * 1 means "Want to work there". Should be 10-15%
* To find companies, see the Companies tab in Jobberwocky, the Tech Companies spreadsheets ([NY][ny-tech-companies] & [SF][bay-tech-companies]) or any other job board.  Some suggested job boards are [here][job-boards].
* Keep working on application materials and JS games whenevere you aren't pairboarding, peer reviewing, or finding companies to apply to.

[roadmap-template]: https://docs.google.com/a/appacademy.io/spreadsheets/d/11PUvMqG2h_9RFFp9h4xv34Uo5T0cOdrtOtEholVEHA4

[github-history]: https://github.com/appacademy/ruby-curriculum/blob/master/w1d5/git-fix-authorship.md#the-command


[job-app-materials-reviews]: ../self-presentation/job_app_materials_reviews.md
[jobberwocky]: http://progress.appacademy.io/jobberwocky
[cover-letter]: ../self-presentation/cover_letter.md
[ny-tech-companies]: https://docs.google.com/a/appacademy.io/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AnnoREts_wUydEk1Z25ER3V4aTdsWjlMRTVmWC1BU2c#gid=0
[bay-tech-companies]: https://docs.google.com/a/appacademy.io/spreadsheet/ccc?key=0AnnoREts_wUydFpJSVZLM25wdmc0Vk56UzEwUzJiY3c#gid=0
[job-boards]: ../mass-applying/job-boards.md
